Date : ['1900-01-01T01:00:00Z']
Timezone : -9999
From : ['Null']
From-name : ['Null']
From-address : ['Null']
Sender : ['Null']
Sender-name : Null
Sender-address : Null
Reply-to : ['Null']
Reply-to-name : Null
Reply-to-address : Null
To : Null
To-name : Null
To-address : ['Null']
Cc : ['Null']
Cc-name : Null
Cc-address : Null
In-Reply-To : ['Null']
In-Reply-To-name : Null
In-Reply-To-address : Null
Message-ID : Null
References : Null
Comments : ['Null']
Subject : ['Null']
Mailing-list : ietf
File-location : ['/home/cezaryrj/IETF/ietf.org/mail-archive/text/ietf/2004-02.mailcl']
id : 266a09d5-b5a0-41f2-875f-899209009b31
_version_ : 1675130242860056577

Content : 

The mail originates from an anonymous client on an unregistered network
and is sent to one of the spam-oozing pustules on the internet where
anybody can get an email account in seconds and abuse it for minutes,
and then throw it away.  It has a forged from and return path (ones that
clearly bear no resemblance to the originating more or less open yahoo
proxy).  It is also OTHERWISE identified as spam -- this particular
message has a spam level of 24.6 (5 required for ~0.01% false positive).

It should be (and was, until now:-) rejected unread and without tainting
the human mind.  It should NOT generate a bounce message, as a bounce is
utterly pointless and will actually create a "reverberation" as
bobby20@earthlink.net is doubtless not a valid address any more (it is
in multiple blacklists) and the earthlink.net MTA will undoubtedly
generate a second bounce of your bounce or harrass the hapless user
bobby20 whose fraternity brothers thought that they'd prank him as a
nerd.

Going through my spam reject spool (and this is a REAL reject spool,
filled with current messages like the one above from this very morning)
I have a very hard time finding a single message for which a bounce is
appropriate.  "Real" vendor mail (even mass mail) has a from address and
delivery path that correspond and other things of that ilk such that
sure, a bounce would work but for a real vendor mailing, even a mass
mailing, a bounce isn't really necessary.  They will generally have the
required-by-law unsubscribe at the bottom, and will generally honor it
if you unsubscribe.  They MAY remarket your email address if you
unsubscribe.  With SA you are free to /dev/null their message and let
them continue to waste their resources talking to the hand or you can
actively unsubscribe.  A bounce message might or might not serve to get
you unsubscribed.  Finally, I shudder when I think of bounces of any
sort that make it through lists.  They drive me nuts on the beowulf list
although they frequently ARE caught -- some come "from" a whitelisted
user.

Overall, it boils down to a question of degree of specificity, utility,
and statistics.  Numbers, I truly do love them.  Looking at my own
admittedly anecdotal numbers (although I'm pleasantly exposed to a
horrifically wide range of spam as I seem to be in a few thousand
address books of complete strangers and have a middling large web
presence, so my anecdotal numbers are actually probably not a terrible
sample), a "blind" MTA bounce of spam is more or less totally useless as
not 1 bounce message in 100 will actually go back to the originator.
1% efficiency is a joke.

SO, if y'all really want to push MTA-side bounces:

  a) Use one of the very good MUA-side sorters such as spamassassin for
a few months and accumulate a nice, fat spool full of presumptive spam.
Do this with a few hundred volunteers, actually to get better
statistics.

  b) Sort out the message headers into malformed and not in some way
that leads you to believe that there is nobody home at the return
addresses of the malformed.  Go ahead, test the return addresses to be
sure!  Just do it from YOUR account and not mine...:-).  

  c) Email the well-formed header return addresses as well.  For yuks,
do so from a new, pristine email address (one that is in NOBODY'S lists)
and measure the time required for the new address to appear in new spam.
For even more yuks, generate an email address for each reply and get
per-return statistics on same.

  d) Determine the statistics from the data.  What is the probability
that a bounce will reach the human or even the organization that
originated the spam?  What is the probability of nucleating ten new
messages from new spammers per bounce (even bounce) reply or
unsubscribe?

THEN you can do two things:  Propose an MTA bounce with a proper
foundation, and propose that foundation.  Presumably it will be one that
does NOT bounce to pretty much the entire class of spam with malformed
headers and may have other rules that you discover by sorting through
all the patterns -- spamassassin gives you a very DETAILED breakdown of
the rules and results used to tag a message spam, so you can actually
look for very subtle multivariate correlates if you want to do a
thorough job.

I personally am a great believer in the central limit theorem, and in
spite of possible biases in my limited sample I suspect that it is
actually very likely highly representative of the current profile of
spam today.  On the basis of my own sample, it is not WORTH it to winnow
out the one message in 10 (to be generous) or more likely one message in
100 (to be realistic) that might, and I say might, make it back to an
originating human.  It definitely isn't worth my own time to try "hand
bouncing" lots of messages to validate my anecdotal impressions.

So there's the gauntlet.  You propose that bounces are important.  Are
they important enough to justify bouncing 9 messages out of 10 to false
return addresses?  How about 99 messages out of 100?  You propose that
bounces will be effective.  Well, starting with a 1% to 10% MAXIMUM
success rate off the top you can't be VERY effective...:-) Perhaps
you'll be effective in warning the even smaller percentage (one that
depends on rejection threshold, to be sure) of false positives that
their message didn't get through.  Here is where one has to look hard at
the cost benefit equation.  Given the above first-approximation
statistics, IS it worth the very substantial costs in misdirected and
useless bounces to catch that small and controllable percentage of false
positives?  If you disagree with my statistics, come up with better
ones.  If you think that the answer is a matter of principle and that we
must leave No Legitimate Mail Behind (however tiny a fraction it is),
well, I would disagree, and we'd have to try to work out a consensus of
some sort.

At the moment, I'm open minded.  Come up with an actual bounce algorithm
(based on spamassasin ratings unless you can come up with something
better) that bounces no MORE than one message in 100 to a non-existent
or false address and that leaves no room for a DDOS attack to propagate.
You can publish the same tests to the AV crowd so that they can fix
their bounce programs.  That would be an important first step in
convincing me that MTA-side bounces are feasible/desireable, especially
if they are driven by a truly intelligent agent that leaves a user with
PERSONALIZED control over their filtering controls.

   rgb

-- 
Robert G. Brown	                       http://www.phy.duke.edu/~rgb/
Duke University Dept. of Physics, Box 90305
Durham, N.C. 27708-0305
Phone: 1-919-660-2567  Fax: 919-660-2525     email:rgb@phy.duke.edu





